substrate channels are interesting! How does catalase create a directionality?

Importat AAs:
H128 - catalytic, donates hydrogen
N201 - catalytic, flexible, right next to H128
Y415 - binds to heme

Phe206
Glu283
Lys348
His392 - Mate et al, conformational changes. H392Q and H392E vari-ants exhibit 75 and 25% of native catalytic activity. The  Gln392variant  contains  only  heme  b,whereas the Glu392variant contains a mixture of heme b and cis and trans isomers of heme d.
Tyr415 - Mate, next to S414, which interacts with the heme
Asp568

hystidine and cysteine can complex with a heme iron
heme is 5-coordinated, hexa when oxygen binds

heme b - "normal"
heme d - heme b with lactone and hydroxyl groups trans to eachother

Gln419 and Ser414 interact with the heme, and change the b/d ratio

heme alone possesses catalytic activity

How efficient is catalase, relative to the diffusion limit?

Mechanism: first, one H2O2 oxidizes the heme, taking one electron from the iron and one from the porphyrin

HPII = KatE

Catalases don't follow Michaelis-Menten except at low [S]...what does it mean to not follow MM? Is that because high H2O2 mess with the enzyme structure?

HPII uses a His to complex with the heme above ring IV
cis is the heme d conformation used for HPII?

W: Transforming native plasmid, plus control GFP plasmid, into cells
Th/F: Harvesting cells

Mechanism:
First, an H2O2 comes in and oxidizes the heme, forming a =O bond and H2O. (this makes Cpd I)
Next, a second H2O2 rapidly reduces Cpd I, forming a second H2O and O2 (2 electrons transferred, not known if this occurs in 1 or 2 steps)

The mechanism of the 2nd reaction is very quick (compared to other heme enzymes), and is not currently understood

Both oxygens in O2 are from the same H2O2

Second step: one hydrogen ion and one hydride ion are transferred from the second H2O2. Two candidate mechanisms: one a direct transfer from H2O2 to the heme, one where the Histidine acts as an acid catalyst. H128 is the important histidine for HPII.

His-lacking mutants can still do reaction 2, but not reaction 1

The active pocket space and polarity is important for activity

The His128 is important for forming Cpd1 in the first place
Apparently the Asn is also relevant?

How reliable are ab initio/DFT calculations? How trustable are they?

Paper says that Cpd His and H2O* have similar pKa values, so either can be the proton donor

The asparigine has some role in being flexible. NO hydrogen bonding occurs with its carboxyl group, since that might interfere with its flexibility charge.

The order of the hydrogen ion/hydride ion transfer isn't known, as of the Carme Rovira mechanism paper

His128 necessary for formation of Cpd I


PH178 - pushes water out?

Writing suggestions
-space between number and unit
-dont start sentences with numbers
-don't use the word WT
-crop gel images
-no bradford assay

"the band is lane 7 is consistent with the size of beta-glucosidase"

make a figure with all relevant amino acids colored and all irrelevant ones invisible

Introduction
-Find other groups that did what you did
